doc/gui/users_guide_gui/Tab_Overview.rst, before:

Tab Overview
------------
For the description of the overview tab first the standard example of a
business park and neighbouring ciy will be used. In the end of this page a
small guide for filling out this tab from scratch will be given.

The overview tab for the standard example looks the following:

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Overview_small.png
    :width: 100%
    :align: center

It is split into 6 main parts, all of which will be presented separately in the
following.

Manage Sites
^^^^^^^^^^^^
In the top left hand side the locations (sites) of the
model are specified.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Manage_Sites.png
    :width: 60%
    :align: center

Each location has a designated area. For energy conversion
units a capacity dependent area can bedefined and it is total available area
that is restricted here per site. The area can be specified by clicking in
the text field next to the checkbox and entering the desired number there
('inf' is also possible if no restriction is desired). You can add a new site
by entering its name into the text line next to the *Add Site* button and
clicking it. A site can be removed by first checking the checkbox next to the
site name and then clicking the *Remove Selected Site(s)*
button.

Manage Years
^^^^^^^^^^^^
In the bottom left hand part of the overview tab you can manage the desired
modeled years. These years are then the support years for the intertemporal
modeling. It is also possible to enter just one year for a non-intertemporal,
single year optimization.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Manage_Years.png
    :width: 60%
    :align: center

For each Year total allowed CO2 emissions can be specified. The energy system
is then only allowed to emit the specified amount of CO2 across all modeled
sites. The allowed annual emissions can be specified by clicking in
the text field next to the checkbox and entering the desired number there
('inf' is also possible if no restriction is desired). You can add a new year
by entering its name into the text line next to the *Add Year* button and
clicking it. A modeled year can be removed by first checking the checkbox next
to the year and then clicking the *Remove Selected Year(s)* button.

Manage Global Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The upper middle part of the overview tab is used to specify global parameters.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Global_Parameters.png
    :width: 40%
    :align: center

The global parameters are set by clicking on the field next to the quantity. In
all cases except for *Solver* and *Objective* a number has to be entered. In
the two cases singled out a drop down menu appears which offers the allowed
choices. The parameters are:

* **Discount rate**: This value gives the discount rate that is used for
  intertemporal planning. It stands for the annual devaluation of money across
  the modeling horizon.
* **CO2 budget**: While the *CO2 limit* specified for each year limits the
  CO2 emissions across all sites within one modeled year, the *CO2 budget* sets
  a cap on the total emissions across all sites in the entire modeling horizon.
  If no restriction is desired enter 'inf' here. The *CO2 budget* is only
  active when the *Objective* is set to its default value 'cost'.
* **Cost budget**: With this parameter a limit on the total system cost over
  the entire modeling horizon can be set. If no restriction is desired enter
  'inf' here. The *Cost budget* is only active when the *Objective* is set to
  the value 'CO2'.
* **Last year weight**: In intertemporal modeling each modeled year is repeated
  until the next modeled year is reached. This is done ba assigning a weight to
  the costs accrued in each of the modeled years. For the last modeled year the
  number of repetitions has to be set by the user here, where a high number
  leads to a stronger weighting of the last modeled year, i.e. of the final
  energy system configuration.
* **Solver**: Here you can specify the desired solver. When clicking on the
  field in column 'Value' a drop down menu opens where three solvers *glpk*,
  *gurobi* and *cplex* are listed as options. Note that only *glpk* is an
  open-source free ware for all users and included in the installation package.
  The other two solvers are commercial and have to be bought by the user
  separately.
* **Objective**: Here you can chose which quantity is to be minimized by the
  optimization process. There are currently two options 'cost' (default) and
  'CO2'. You can chose them in a drop down menu that occurs when you click into
  the 'Value' column.
* **Time step offset/length**: The next two global parameters specify which of
  the time steps given as parameters are to be considered by the model. The
  optimization will start at the value 'offset+1' and end at 'offset+length'
* **Time step (in hours)**: Many parameters are given to the model as time
  series. With this global parameter you can specify how long each entry of a
  time series is in hours.

Manage plot periods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To the right of the global parameters the plot periods can be defined. This is
necessary since standard graphs become large and difficult to read if the
optimization horizon is much longer than a week. The corresponding section on
the screen looks like the following: 

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Plot_periods.png
    :width: 60%
    :align: center

You can add new plot periods by specifying a name in the text field in the top
section of the sub-window and then clicking the 'Add Period' button. The
corresponding period will then appear in the lower section of the sub-window.
You then have to specify the strating time step and the duration in the columns
denoted 'Offset' and 'Length', respectively. For removing a plot period check
the checkbox and then click the 'Remove Selcted Period(s)' button in the top
section of the sub-window.

Scenarios
^^^^^^^^^
In the upper right hand section of the screen scenarios can be specified. These
refer to variations in the input parameters which can be specified in functions
in the subfolder 'urbs' in file 'scenarios.py'. A few standard examples are
listed already and can be chosen by checking the boxes next to their names.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Scenarios.png
    :width: 20%
    :align: center

Model running and supervision
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The lower right hand part of the screen is dedicated to model running and
supervision. With the 'Play' button a model run is started and can be
interrupted with the red 'Stop' button. The lower section displays the log file
of the model run.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Running.png
    :width: 100%
    :align: center

Commit message:

Added short description for creation of new scenario

doc/gui/users_guide_gui/Tab_Overview.rst, after:

Tab Overview
------------
For the description of the overview tab first the standard example of a
business park and neighbouring ciy will be used. In the end of this page a
small guide for filling out this tab from scratch will be given.

The overview tab for the standard example looks the following:

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Overview_small.png
    :width: 100%
    :align: center

It is split into 6 main parts, all of which will be presented separately in the
following.

Manage Sites
^^^^^^^^^^^^
In the top left hand side the locations (sites) of the
model are specified.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Manage_Sites.png
    :width: 60%
    :align: center

Each location has a designated area. For energy conversion
units a capacity dependent area can bedefined and it is total available area
that is restricted here per site. The area can be specified by clicking in
the text field next to the checkbox and entering the desired number there
('inf' is also possible if no restriction is desired). You can add a new site
by entering its name into the text line next to the *Add Site* button and
clicking it. A site can be removed by first checking the checkbox next to the
site name and then clicking the *Remove Selected Site(s)*
button.

Manage Years
^^^^^^^^^^^^
In the bottom left hand part of the overview tab you can manage the desired
modeled years. These years are then the support years for the intertemporal
modeling. It is also possible to enter just one year for a non-intertemporal,
single year optimization.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Manage_Years.png
    :width: 60%
    :align: center

For each Year total allowed CO2 emissions can be specified. The energy system
is then only allowed to emit the specified amount of CO2 across all modeled
sites. The allowed annual emissions can be specified by clicking in
the text field next to the checkbox and entering the desired number there
('inf' is also possible if no restriction is desired). You can add a new year
by entering its name into the text line next to the *Add Year* button and
clicking it. A modeled year can be removed by first checking the checkbox next
to the year and then clicking the *Remove Selected Year(s)* button.

Manage Global Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The upper middle part of the overview tab is used to specify global parameters.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Global_Parameters.png
    :width: 40%
    :align: center

The global parameters are set by clicking on the field next to the quantity. In
all cases except for *Solver* and *Objective* a number has to be entered. In
the two cases singled out a drop down menu appears which offers the allowed
choices. The parameters are:

* **Discount rate**: This value gives the discount rate that is used for
  intertemporal planning. It stands for the annual devaluation of money across
  the modeling horizon.
* **CO2 budget**: While the *CO2 limit* specified for each year limits the
  CO2 emissions across all sites within one modeled year, the *CO2 budget* sets
  a cap on the total emissions across all sites in the entire modeling horizon.
  If no restriction is desired enter 'inf' here. The *CO2 budget* is only
  active when the *Objective* is set to its default value 'cost'.
* **Cost budget**: With this parameter a limit on the total system cost over
  the entire modeling horizon can be set. If no restriction is desired enter
  'inf' here. The *Cost budget* is only active when the *Objective* is set to
  the value 'CO2'.
* **Last year weight**: In intertemporal modeling each modeled year is repeated
  until the next modeled year is reached. This is done ba assigning a weight to
  the costs accrued in each of the modeled years. For the last modeled year the
  number of repetitions has to be set by the user here, where a high number
  leads to a stronger weighting of the last modeled year, i.e. of the final
  energy system configuration.
* **Solver**: Here you can specify the desired solver. When clicking on the
  field in column 'Value' a drop down menu opens where three solvers *glpk*,
  *gurobi* and *cplex* are listed as options. Note that only *glpk* is an
  open-source free ware for all users and included in the installation package.
  The other two solvers are commercial and have to be bought by the user
  separately.
* **Objective**: Here you can chose which quantity is to be minimized by the
  optimization process. There are currently two options 'cost' (default) and
  'CO2'. You can chose them in a drop down menu that occurs when you click into
  the 'Value' column.
* **Time step offset/length**: The next two global parameters specify which of
  the time steps given as parameters are to be considered by the model. The
  optimization will start at the value 'offset+1' and end at 'offset+length'
* **Time step (in hours)**: Many parameters are given to the model as time
  series. With this global parameter you can specify how long each entry of a
  time series is in hours.

Manage plot periods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To the right of the global parameters the plot periods can be defined. This is
necessary since standard graphs become large and difficult to read if the
optimization horizon is much longer than a week. The corresponding section on
the screen looks like the following: 

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Plot_periods.png
    :width: 60%
    :align: center

You can add new plot periods by specifying a name in the text field in the top
section of the sub-window and then clicking the 'Add Period' button. The
corresponding period will then appear in the lower section of the sub-window.
You then have to specify the strating time step and the duration in the columns
denoted 'Offset' and 'Length', respectively. For removing a plot period check
the checkbox and then click the 'Remove Selcted Period(s)' button in the top
section of the sub-window.

Scenarios
^^^^^^^^^
In the upper right hand section of the screen scenarios can be specified. These
refer to variations in the input parameters which can be specified in functions
in the subfolder 'urbs' in file 'scenarios.py'. A few standard examples are
listed already and can be chosen by checking the boxes next to their names.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Scenarios.png
    :width: 20%
    :align: center

Adding a new scenario is currently not a simple task and more for expert users.
To do so you have to do 2 things.

1. Define a new scenario function in script 'urbs/scenarios'
2. Make the function available for the GUI by adding it to the scenario list in
   the end of file 'gui/Controller.py'.

Model running and supervision
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The lower right hand part of the screen is dedicated to model running and
supervision. With the 'Play' button a model run is started and can be
interrupted with the red 'Stop' button. The lower section displays the log file
of the model run.

.. image:: img_gui_tutorial/Running.png
    :width: 100%
    :align: center
